The Project Gutenberg eBook of A day at Happy Hollow School, by
Lettie Cook Van Derveer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A day at Happy Hollow School

Author: Lettie Cook Van Derveer

Release Date: May 15, 2022 [eBook #68083]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A DAY AT HAPPY HOLLOW
SCHOOL ***





  A Day at
  Happy Hollow
  School

  By
  Lettie Cook Van Derveer

  [Illustration]


  March Brothers
  Publishers
  208, 210, 212 Wright Ave., Lebanon, O.




  Copyright, 1910,
  BY MARCH BROTHERS.




A Day at Happy Hollow School

By LETTIE COOK VAN DERVEER




ACT I.


SETTING--Interior of schoolroom. Chairs arranged in rows for scholars;
desk and chair for teacher; blackboard.

(Enter teacher. Severe-looking, wearing eye-glasses. Arranges books and
papers on desk. Rings bell.)

(Enter scholars, singly and in groups, talking and laughing until
teacher again taps bell. They wear varied costumes, gingham aprons,
etc. On entering remove coats, caps, shawls, hats and bonnets--in
season and out of season--hanging them on hooks in the wall or on backs
of chairs. Hair in pig-tails or curls tied with ribbons or shoestrings
in all manner of fashions.)

Each has basket, bag or tin dinner-pail.

Teacher opens roll-book and proceeds to call roll.

_Teacher._ “Annabel Adams.”

_Annabel Adams._ “Present.”

_Teacher._ “Bessie Bolitsky.”

_Bessie Bolitsky._ “P-r-r-esent!”

_Teacher._ “Curiosity Cornhusk.”

_Curiosity Cornhusk._ “Present.”

_Teacher._ “Dennis Dockerty.”

_Dennis Dockerty._ “Present.”

_Teacher._ “Etta Elephant.”

_Etta Elephant_ (fat child). “I’m here.”

_Teacher._ “Fanny Finney.”

_Fanny Finney_ (brogue). “Hyer.”

_Teacher._ “Geraldine Griggs.”

_Geraldine Griggs._ “Present.”

_Teacher._ “Henry Hoskins.”

_Henry Hoskins._ “Pr-r-esent.”

_Teacher._ “Isaac Ibsen.”

_Isaac Ibsen._ “We’s both here.”

_Teacher._ “Silence! Next time answer as you should.” (Proceeds.) “Ira
Ibsen.”

_Ira Ibsen_ (very faintly). “Present.”

_Teacher._ “Joshua Judkins.”

_Joshua Judkins._ “Present.”

(Other names may be added.)

_Teacher._ “First class in geography, come forward.”

(Advance Annabel, Dennis, Etta, Curiosity and Joshua.)

_Teacher._ “Now Annabel, you tell me this. If to the right of you
is the South, and on your left the North, and in front of you the
East--what’s behind you?”

Annabel thinks a moment, then starts to cry. “Boo hoo! I knowed it. I
told ma you’d see them buttons missin’ off my waist.”

_Teacher._ “Ridiculous! I mean the West. Now listen children! Does
anybody remember what the population of China is?” (All shake heads
negatively.)

_Teacher._ “Well, the population of China is so great that two Chinamen
die every time you take a breath.”

(Etta immediately starts purring furiously. Keeps it up until spoken
to.)

_Teacher._ “Dennis Dockerty go to the board and draw the map of New
Jersey.”

(Dennis goes, but draws instead a tree, one branch of which is longer
than the others, and has on it three disks representing fruit.)

_Teacher_ (just then observing Etta’s flushed face and energetic
puffs): “Why Etta Elephant, what’s the matter? What on earth are you
doing?”

_Etta Elephant._ “Killing Chinamen. I never did like them foreigners
what me father calls aliens, and I’m getting rid of them as fast as I
can.”

(Teacher throws up hands in exasperation. Turns to blackboard.)

“Why Dennis Dockerty that’s not the map of New Jersey.”

_Dennis._ “Please, ma’am, my big brother says New Jersey’s like a fruit
tree, ’cause it’s got a Long Branch, three Oranges and a Lemon.”

_Teacher_ (meditatively): “Y-e-s, East Orange, West Orange and South
Orange--but where’s the Lemon?”

_Dennis_ (saucily). “You’re the Lemon.”

_Other Scholars._ “O-h-h!”

_Teacher._ “Go to your seat.”

(Dennis goes, shuffling his feet and sulking for some time.)

_Teacher._ “Curiosity, your father is a sailor; would it be possible
for him to start to-day to go round the world, and keep sailing always
in the same direction till he came back to his starting-point?”

_Curiosity._ “No, Miss Fitzimmons, pop’s laid up with rheumatism.”

_Teacher._ “Dear me! What ails you all to be so stupid to-day. Joshua,
have we anything in our country as wonderful as the great volcano, Mt.
Vesuvius, which continually pours out smoke and molten lava?”

_Joshua._ “Sure--give Niagara Falls a chance, it will put the whole
thing out in a minute.”

_Teacher._ “Very good. You may take your seats.”

(Class obey.)

_Teacher._ “Next is the class in General Information. Forward.”

(Advance Bessie, Geraldine, Fanny, Henry, Isaac and Ira.)

(In the meantime Etta is seen chewing gum vigorously, and planting her
feet conspicuously in the aisle as she fidgets about.)

_Teacher_ (impressively). “Bessie, tell me what you would think if you
saw the Stars and Stripes waving over the field of battle?”

_Bessie_ (innocently). “I’d think that the wind was blowing.”

_Teacher._ “Awful!” (observes Etta). “Etta Elephant, take your gum
out of your mouth, and put your feet in immediately.” (Etta does this
literally in pantomime.)

(Just then Curiosity pipes up, raising hand as she asks.) “Teacher, did
you ever see a hair die?”

_Teacher._ “Certainly _not_.”

_Curiosity Cornhusk._ “Or ink stand?”

_Teacher._ “_No!_ Do be quiet.” (Turns to class.) “Now do you know
whether any one is going to try to discover the South Pole?”

_Fanny._ “Oi ain’t going.”

_Teacher._ “Oh, Fanny, my child, you must not say, ‘I ain’t going.’ You
must say, ‘I am not going.’ It’s like this: ‘I am not going; he is not
going; she is not going; we are not going; you are not going; they are
not going.’ Now, can you say all that Fanny?”

_Fanny._ “Shure Oi can. ‘There ain’t nobody going.’”

Teacher waves her aside in despair. Asks others: “Which of you can
describe the backbone?”

_Geraldine_ (raises hand, standing on one foot in her eagerness to
answer). “The backbone is something that holds up the head and ribs,
and keeps you from having legs clear up your neck.”

_Teacher._ “Now, children, what is a cat covered with? Is it wool? Is
it fur? Is it feathers? Is it hair?”

_Curiosity_ (pipes up): “Say, ain’t you honest never seen a cat?”

(The others answer in chorus): “Fur.”

_Teacher._ “Geraldine, what is dew?”

_Geraldine._ “The earth revolves on its own axis three hundred and
sixty-five times in twenty-four hours. This rapid motion through space
causes it to perspire. This is called dew.”

_Teacher._ “Henry, where was the Declaration of Independence signed?”

_Henry._ “At the bottom, ma’am.”

_Teacher._ “What is mathematics, Isaac?”

_Isaac._ “Dunno.”

_Ira._ “Me neither.”

_Teacher._ “Well, mathematics is the science that treats of measurement
or numbering. For instance: If it takes one man twelve days to build a
house, then twelve men can build it in one day. That’s mathematics.”

(Isaac and Ira put heads together over pencil and paper while teacher
asks next question.)

_Teacher._ “Bessie, if your mother bought four baskets of grapes, the
dealer’s price being a quarter a basket, how much would the purchase
cost her?”

_Bessie._ “You never can tell. Ma’s great at a bargain.”

(Isaac and Ira wave their hands to attract attention.)

_Teacher._ “Well, Isaac? Well, Ira?”

_Isaac._ “Say Miss Fitzimmons, me’n Ira’s figgered out that two hundred
and eighty-eight men will build it in one hour; seventeen thousand two
hundred and eighty, in a minute, and--”

_Ira_ (interrupts). “And one million, thirty-six thousand eight hundred
men will put it up in a second, an’--”

_Teacher._ “There, that will do--that’s quite enough. I see you
understand the meaning of mathematics fully.”

_Curiosity_ (raises hand and asks). “Please, teacher, did you ever see
a stone step, or a bed spring, or a apple turn over?”

_Teacher._ “Curiosity Cornhusk, I want you to stop asking questions at
once. Don’t you know that curiosity once killed a cat?” (Curiosity is
thoughtful.) “Children, you may all take your seats.”

_Curiosity._ “Please, teacher, what was it the cat wanted to know?”

_Teacher_ (sinks into chair). “Somebody bring me a glass of water,
quick!”

(Geraldine gravely goes to pail in the corner and brings a large tin
dipper full. Teacher revives.)

_Teacher._ “Children I wanted to speak to you about that poor family
who have just moved into the old brown house in the Hollow. The father
is just getting up from a sick-bed and not able to work yet and I
hear there’s scarcely a thing to eat in the house, and to-morrow is
Thanksgiving, you know. I do wish we could send them a good dinner. Can
any of you think of a way to manage it without asking too much of our
parents?”

(A loud knock is heard at the outer door. While teacher answers it
scholars occupy themselves with throwing spit-balls, and various pranks
of school children. She returns.)

_Teacher._ “There are two automobiles just down the hill. They got off
the main road by mistake, and one of them is broken down, and the men
are trying to get it fixed up. They wanted to know if there was any
place near here where they could get something to eat. The one at the
door says they’re ‘positively starving,’ and would be willing to pay
a good round sum for anything fit to eat. You know there is no house
nearer than old Mr. Dawson’s and--”

_Annabel._ “Don’t send ’em there, teacher; Mis’ Dawson is just doin’
her washin’ to-day, and she’ll most likely have a cold bite.”

_Teacher._ “That’s true--and the next place is Mr. Temple’s--”

_Curiosity._ “I saw ’em drivin’ off to town as I came by, an’ the house
was all shut up.”

_Teacher._ “Then there’s quite a stretch between there and your place,
Bessie.”

_Bessie._ “Mercy! Don’t send them there, Miss Fitzimmons. Mother’s
makin’ mince-meat and cookin’ up pumpkin for pies, and she’d be all
upset.”

_Teacher._ “Well, it appears there isn’t very good promise of lunch
for these wayfarers unless we help them out. What do you say if we
sell our lunches to them and take the proceeds to buy supplies for the
folks down in the Hollow? We only have a short session after recess on
account of the holiday, so you wouldn’t get so terribly hungry before
you go home. I’ll leave you here for awhile, and if you decide to make
this sacrifice you can place your lunches on my desk.”

(Scholars immediately begin discussion; some for, some against proposed
disposal of lunches; all talking at once and moving about.)

(Presently Annabel rises, sighs and slowly advances to desk, placing
basket there, and saying:) “I hate to give up that piece of pumpkin
pie, but I couldn’t relish it thinking of that Hollow family; I’ve been
hollow myself.” (This is funnier if the speaker is a stout girl.)

_Bessie_ (follows her example). “All I hope is that the stew don’t all
get et up before I get home to-day.”

_Curiosity._ “Guess I’ll keep mine.”

_Dennis._ “I love my lunch, but oh! them hungry kids.” (Goes forward.)

_Geraldine._ “Guess I’m as generous as anybody.” (Adds her lunch.)

_Etta_ to _Curiosity_. “You’d ought to be ashamed of yourself.”
(Arises.) “My lunch is out in the cloak-room; I’ll go get it.”

(While she is gone, Curiosity puts her lunch with the rest, sighing:)
“I’ll do it, but I guess I’ll die like that Curiosity cat; I’ll be
so hungry.” (Thoughtfully.) “Wonder what that cat _did_ want to know
anyhow.”

_Joshua._ “Guess if they can stand them biscuits of Sis’s, I oughtn’t
to kick.”

(Etta returns with huge basket, which she deposits with an air of
importance on the desk. Looks contemptuously at Curiosity.)

_Fanny._ “And I bet you we won’t have nothin’ but fried praties and
onions for supper. But maybe _they_ ain’t got even them.” (Puts bag
with others.)

(Isaac and Ira go up together, saying:) “And there’s ours.”

_Henry._ “Here’s mine, too.”

_Etta_ to _Curiosity_. “There, you see; everybody’s give up their lunch
but you, you little stingy, contrary, stubborn, selfish, tight-fisted,
over-fed, pie-faced pig you--”

_Curiosity._ “Are you through?”

_Etta._ “Yes.”

_Curiosity._ “Ain’t you got nothin’ more to say?”

_Etta._ “No.”

_Curiosity._ “Well, all of them things you called me you are. I put my
lunch there when you went after yours.”

_Etta_ (repentently). “Oh, I take it all back.”

_Curiosity_ (cordially). “All right, you’re welcome.”

(Enter teacher.)

_Teacher._ “Ah, this looks as if everybody has been generous. I’m proud
of you. You’re all true friends in need. But I was sure you’d do it, so
I spoke to the gentleman at the door and he says, he will consider it
a bargain at any price we say, and will be back with his friends soon.
Now for the recitations. Each one of you try to recite something, if
only a stanza. And after all have recited, I will call for the fire
drill, and all be ready to respond immediately. Don’t hesitate, do as
you would if the building was really on fire. Now, Annabel you’re first
on the roll, so you begin speaking.”

Annabel comes forward, bows, announces: “Mary’s Little Lamb.” Bows
again, and recites as follows:

  “Some folks say that fleas is black,
    But that ain’t true I know,
  For Mary had a little lamb
    Its fleas was white as snow.”

_Teacher._ “Now Bessie, it’s your turn.”

_Bessie._ “Me and Curiosity’s got one together.”

_Curiosity._

  “I asked my Pa a simple thing,
    Where holes in doughnuts go?
  Pa read his paper, then he said,
    ‘Oh, you’re too young to know.’”

_Bessie._

  “I asked my Ma about the wind,
    Why you can’t see it blow?
  Ma thought a moment, then she said,
    ‘Oh, you’re too young to know.’”

_Both together._

  “Now why on earth do you suppose
    They went and licked us so.
  Ma asked, ‘Where is that jam?’ I said,
    ‘Oh, you’re too young to know.’”

_Teacher._ “Now, Dennis.”

_Dennis recites._

  “The lady in the street-car
    Was glaring down at me,
  Because I chanced to have a seat
    And she did not, you see.

  “But I rose very quickly
    And offered her my seat.
  ’Twas a question whether she or I
    Should stand upon _my_ feet.
                                      Ouch!”

_Teacher._ “Now we’ll have yours, Etta.”

_Etta._ “Please, teacher, I ain’t thought of mine yet.” (Nudges Fanny.)
“You g’wan, Fanny.”

_Fanny_ (grinning and twisting apron).

  “Hyer Oi stand, all ragged and dirty,
  Ask me me name, an’ Oi’ll run like a turkey.”

_Teacher._ “Geraldine next.”

_Geraldine._

  “When mother was a little maid
    She was so very good,
  I really often think that she
    Must have been made of wood.

  “_She_ never, never played a trick
    On her pet pussy ‘Tib,’
  _She_ would not tease; she would not tell
    The tiniest little fib.

  “_She_ always kept her dresses clean,--
    Her curls were brushed just right;
  _She_ never cried and coaxed that she
    Might stay up late at night.

  “And very often when I’ve been
    In mischief and been bad,
  I think, ‘Ain’t it an _awful shame_
    That I took after Dad.’”

_Teacher._ “Now, Henry.”

_Henry_ (very rapidly and jerkily).

  “There was a young girl from Boo Loo
    Who wanted to catch the two-two.
  Said the porter, ‘Don’t hurry, or scurry or worry,
    It’s a minute or two to two-two.’”

_Teacher._ “Isaac and Ira, I suppose you have one between you?” (They
nod.) “All right.”

_Isaac._

  “The verse you write
    You say is written.

_Ira._

  You fly your kite
    But not your kitten.

_Isaac._

  The gas you light
    Is never litten.

_Ira._

  The things you drank
    Were doubtless drunk.

_Isaac._

  The boy you spank
    Is never spunk.

_Ira._

  A friend you thank
    But never thunk.

_Isaac._

  Suppose you speak
    Then you have spoken.

_Ira._

  But if you sneak
    You have not snoken.

_Isaac._

  The shoes that squeak
    Have never squoken.”

_Teacher._ “What is yours, Joshua?”

_Joshua._

  “Grandma, here’s a little gumdrop.”
    “Thank you very much, my sweet,
  What a thoughtful little boy you are
    To bring Grandma a treat.”

  “Did you like that gumdrop, Grandma?”
    “Yes, my dear, ’twas very nice.”
  “Ain’t it queer now, Towsey didn’t
    ’Cause he spitted it out twice.”

_Teacher._ “Dear me, Joshua, perhaps you’d better let me choose your
next piece. Now, Etta, if you are ready, we’ll have your piece as the
final recitation.”

_Etta._

  Once there was a little boy, whose name was Robert Reece,
    And every Friday afternoon he had to speak a piece.
  So many poems thus he learned, that soon he had a store
    Of recitations in his head, and still kept learning more.

  And now this is what happened; he was called upon one week
    And totally forgot the piece he was about to speak!
  His brain he cudgelled! not a word remained within his head!
    And so he spoke at random, and this is what he said.

  “My Beautiful, my Beautiful, who standest proudly by,
    It was the schooner Hesperus--the breaking waves dashed high!
  Why is the Forum crowded? What means this stir in Rome?
    Under the spreading chestnut tree, there is no place like home.

  “When Freedom from her mountain height cried, Twinkle little star,
    Shoot if you must this old gray head, King Henry of Navarre!
  Roll on, thou deep and dark blue crested crags of Drachenfels,
    My name is Norval on the Grampion Hills, ring out wild bells!”

  “If you’re waking call me early, to be or not to be,
    The curfew must not ring to-night. Oh! woodman spare that tree!
  Charge, Chester, charge! On, Stanley, on! and let who will be clever!
    The boy stood on the burning deck, but I go on forever!”

                                                  (Bows and takes seat.)

_Teacher_ (smilingly). “Now, children, what would you say if I should
make a few remarks?”

_All together_ (as in fire drill) “Form a line and march outdoors.”

_Teacher._ “What! what!” (Teacher taps bell sharply.)

_Etta_ (excitedly). “That’s the fire bell. Hurry up!” (All rush out,
leaving teacher standing amazed.)

(She turns to audience and says:) “Well, ain’t that the beatenest?”
(Also goes out.)


(Curtain.)




ACT II.

SETTING--Same as Act I.

(Miss Fitzsimmons sits at her desk arranging some papers. Laughter and
talking is heard, followed by the entrance of the automobile party of
six persons.)

_Mrs. Morrison_, a stout, elderly lady.

_May Morrison_, her daughter, affected young lady.

_Betty Bennet_, May’s friend.

_Charley Chadwick_, May’s beau, something of a “smarty,” but a “good
sort.”

_Mr. and Mrs. Brown_, an affectionate couple.


_May Morrison_ (ecstatically). “Oh, what a perfectly darling place! The
veritable little old red schoolhouse.”

(Miss Fitzsimmons sniffs audibly as she looks her over disdainfully.)

_Charley Chadwick_ (taking her hand and skipping with her down the
aisle, sings):

  “School-days, school-days
    Dear old Golden Rule days.
  Readin’ and writin’ and ’rithmetic,
    Taught to the tune of the hick’ry stick.
  You were my queen in calico,
    I was your bashful, bare-foot beau,
  And you wrote on my slate, ‘I love you, Joe,’
    When we were a couple of kids.”

_Mrs. Morrison_ (advances to the teacher’s desk). “Good morning.
Miss--ah?”

_Teacher_ (shortly). “Fitzsimmons.”

_Mrs. M._ “Ah yes, of course. You are the teacher, I presume?” (Miss
Fitzsimmons nods.) “Awfully nice of you to extend your hospitality to
us in this way.”

_Mr. Brown_ (joins in). “Yes, indeed, its great of you to help us out.”

_Charley_ (facetiously). “Oh, no, Brown; this is a case of our being
‘taken in.’”

(The girls giggle.)

_Miss Fitzsimmons_ (after a contemptuous glance in his direction,
responds quite graciously to the others). “I’m sure I’m glad we could
be of service to you, and the children are pleased at the prospect of
helping the poor family, which your generosity has made possible.”

_Mr. Brown._ “Oh, don’t mention it.”

_Miss Fitzsimmons._ “And you’ll find all the lunches on those seats”
(pointing to them). “I hope you will enjoy them.” (Turns to her papers.
The others murmur their thanks and proceed to remove their wraps, all
but Mrs. Brown, who draws her fur more closely about her throat.)

_Mr. Brown._ “Cold, dearie?”

_Mrs. B._ (plaintively). “Simply freezing, honey.”

_Charley_ (aside to May). “Buzz! Buzz!”

_Mr. Brown_ (bustling about). “Where is the radiator, anyhow?”

_Miss Fitzsimmons._ “The _stove’s_ up there at the other end of the
room.”

_Charley._ “Oh, I say, Brown, let’s turn our attention to the baskets
now and hug the stove afterwards. I’m completely caved in.”

(Mr. and Mrs. Brown gracefully agree to this, and the opening of the
baskets, bags and kettles begins.)

(The door in view of the audience opens on a crack and Curiosity’s
hooded head appears unnoticed by the occupants of the schoolroom, and
one after another the curious faces of the children appear.)

_Betty_ (gleefully). “Oh! Oh! a cup of cranberry jelly.” (Takes it out.)

_May._ “And here are two simply luscious-looking cakes with chocolate
on top.”

_Charley._ “Horray! pumpkin pie.”

_Mrs. Brown._ “Oh, lovey, look! A great big, juicy cruller.” (Holds it
up.)

_Mr. Brown._ “We’ll eat it together over by the stove, pet.”

_Charley._ “Going to eat the _whole_ of it?”

_May._ “Oh, Charley, you funny funny thing!”

(They group themselves about and arrange the viands on napkins found in
the baskets.)

(Just then Charley espies the faces at the door, which promptly bob out
of sight, except Curiosity’s.)

_Charley._ “Hello there, sis! How’s all the pigs up at your place?”

_Curiosity._ “Oh, pretty well, thank you. How’s all your folks?”

(Betty claps her hands.) “Good! good!” (The others laugh, Charley
included.)

_Charley._ “Oh, I say! What’s your name, anyhow?”

_Curiosity._ “Same as father’s.”

_Charley._ “Yes, I know that, but what’s father’s now?”

_Curiosity._ “Same’s mine.”

_Charley._ “Well, but what do they say when they call you to breakfast.”

_Curiosity._ “They don’t never call me. I allers git there first.”

_Teacher._ “Why, Curiosity, I thought you had gone home.”

_Curiosity._ “No’m. We thought we’d wait and take our baskets home
after they’re through with ’em.”

_Mrs. Morrison._ “Oh, let them stay, Miss--Persimmons.”

_Teacher._ “_Fitz_simmons.”

_Mrs. Morrison._ “Oh, yes, of course, Fitzsimmons. Let them all come
in; there’s plenty here for all of us and them, too.”

_May._ “Oh, yes, do. It’ll be a perfect circus.”

(Charley throws wide the door.) “Come in, come in, friends, and help us
eat up your lunches.”

(The children, after much whispering and “you go first,” troop in
bashfully, giggling and nudging one another, and the eating commences,
Mrs. Morrison presiding over the distribution of the lunches.)

_Charley_ (munching a sandwich). “My, but this chicken sandwich is
prime. Who brought it, anyway?”

_Dennis_ (shyly). “I did.”

_Charley._ “Your own chickens?”

_Dennis._ “Yes, sir.”

_Charley._ “I should think you’d hate to chop the heads off the poor
chickens.”

_Dennis._ “Oh, we get around that all right.”

_Charley._ “How, now?”

_Dennis._ “Oh, we chop the chickens off.”

(The grown-ups all laugh delightedly.)

_Curiosity_ (intently regarding Miss May’s enjoyment of the generous
portions of lunch at her place and Charley’s attentions toward her),
asks Mr. Brown, “Is he going to marry her?” (indicating them by a nod
of her head).

_Mr. Brown._ “I believe so.”

_Curiosity._ “And buy her everything?”

_Mr. Brown._ “Yes.”

_Curiosity._ “Clo’s and dinners and ice-cream and things?”

_Mr. Brown._ “I presume so.”

_Curiosity._ “Well, that man’s got lots of courage, ain’t he?”

(Mr. and Mrs. Brown laugh amusedly, and Charley turns from a
conversation with May to ask), “Hello! now what’s the joke?”

_Etta E._ “Oh, its her” (motions to Curiosity), “she’s et so much of my
tomato ketshup she’s gettin’ sawcy.”

_Curiosity._ “Well, you et that big apple out of my basket.”

_Etta._ “Well, here, plant the seeds and you can have a whole orchard.”
(Holds them out to her provokingly.)

_Charley_ (to Annabel). “Well, sister, did you make this pie?”

_Annabel._ “No, sir. Ma did, though, and she’ll write off how if you
want me to ask her to.”

_Charley._ “Now that’s kind of you. Pray do. How’d you like a good
receipt for catching rabbits?”

_Annabel_ (staring). “Wh-y! I--I’d like to have it.”

_Charley._ “Well, you crouch down behind a thick stone wall and make a
noise like a turnip.”

_Annabel._ “O--h!” (thinks it over).

_Mr. Brown_ (to Mrs. B.) “Isn’t this blackberry jam delicious,
sweetness?” (Gives her a spoonful.) “But you’d know it reminds me of a
painful blunder I made once when visiting the country, which I never
want to repeat.”

_Mrs. Brown._ “Dear me! Did you mistake a stranger for an acquaintance,
honey?”

_Mr. Brown._ “No, not exactly that, but I mistook a bumblebee for a
blackberry.”

_Mrs. Brown._ “Oh, my!”

_Annabel_ (to Charley). “I can tell you a better way to catch ’em.”

_Charley._ “Catch what?”

_Annabel._ “Why, them rabbits.”

_Charley._ “How now?”

_Annabel._ “You go and sit quietly in a bed of cabbages and look
natural.”

(The laugh is on Charley.)

_May_ (to Bessie Bolitsky). “Now I expect you little girls know a
perfectly awful lot, don’t you? Can you tell me how many ribs you have?”

_Bessie_ (squirming and giggling). “I don’t know, ma’am. I’m so awful
ticklish I never could count ’em.”

_Mr. Brown_ (to Fanny). “I hear we pass your house on our way to the
turnpike. I’d like to stop and see your father about buying some of
these apples (eating one). Think he is home?”

_Fanny._ “Oh, yes-sir. He’s worrikin’ down at the end of the back lot
where the pigs is. You’ll know father ’cause he’s got a hat on.” (A
burst of laughter.)

_Fanny_ (indignantly). “Well, I don’t see what you’re laughin’ at. The
hired man’s got on a cap.”

_Mrs. Morrison._ “I suppose you children know lots about history. Now
who can tell me the name of the first man?”

_Henry._ “George Washington.”

_Mrs. M._ “Why do you think George Washington was the first man?”

_Henry._ “Because he was first in war, first in peace, and first in the
hearts of his countrymen.”

_Joshua._ “No, Henry. You’re way off. George Washington couldn’t a’
been the first man ’cause my history-book says he married a widow; so
there must a’ been another man way ahead of him.”

(Laughter from grown-ups.)

_May._ “You surely are well informed about Washington. How about
Lincoln?”

_Geraldine._ “We’s just writing compositions on him to hand in next
Monday. I’ve got mine here if you’l like to hear it.”

_May._ “I’d simply love to.”

_Betty._ “Oh, yes, do read it.”

_Geraldine_ (takes paper out of book and reads). “Abraham Lincoln was
born in Kentucky at a very early age. His father moved the family to
Ohio, floating down the Mississippi. If he had not been killed by a
murderer he might be living to-day. He was an intelligent man and could
easily have been President of New York City.”

(The grown-ups try to hide their smiles.)

_May._ “Perfectly remarkable.”

_Mrs. Morrison_ (to Isaac). “Have another sandwich, my boy, or a pickle
or something.”

_Isaac._ “No’m, thanks; I’m full.”

_Mrs. M._ “But surely you are not finished yet. Why here is some
delicious pie.”

_Isaac._ “Yes’m, I’m saving my neck for that.”

_Mrs. Brown_ (to Annabel). “And this little girl has stopped eating,
too. Do take another cake.”

_Annabel_ (with a sigh, as she takes the proffered cake). “Well, I’ve
quit swallerin’, but I can chaw yet.”

_Mrs. M._ (rising and going to the teacher’s desk, where Miss
Fitzsimmons is lunching while she marks and arranges papers). “Well, my
dear Miss Fitzgibbons--”

_Teacher._ “Fitzsimmons.”

_Mrs. M._ “Oh, of course, Fitzsimmons. My dear Miss Fitzsimmons, this
has been a most enjoyable and unique occasion to us.”

_Teacher._ “I’m glad, I’m sure.”

(Mr. and Mrs. Brown join them.)

_Mr. B._ “We’ll remember it as one of the events of our lives, won’t
we, Rosebud?”

_Mrs. B._ “Indeed we shall. It makes one wish she were a little
schoolgirl once again.”

_Mr. B._ (fondly aside). “And I a little schoolboy to carry her books.”

_Mrs. B._ “You dear, foolish boy.”

_Charley._ “But, oh, say, Mrs. Morrison, before we go let’s have a game
of something or other. What say, everybody?”

_May and Betty._ “Oh, yes, let’s.”

_Children._ “Oh let’s do.”

_Charley._ “What shall it be?”

_Children cry._ “Ring-around-a-rosey,” “Puss-in-the-corner” and “London
Bridge.”

_Charley._ “Well, let’s see; that’s three to choose from. How many say
Ring-around-a-rosey, hold up your hands.”

(A few of the children’s hands are raised.)

_Charley._ “Now Puss-in-the-corner. How many am I bid for
Puss-in-the-corner?”

(A few more hands are raised.)

_Charley._ “Now for London Bridge. Going--going--gone.”

(The other children and all of the grown-ups hands are raised except
the teacher’s and Mrs. Morrison’s, who stand aside laughing.)

_Charley._ “London Bridge has it. You come on, too, Mamma Morrison and
Miss Teacher. Everybody forward. Who’ll be London Bridge? You do, Betty
and May, and come on, the rest of you. Line up behind me and we’ll
storm the bridge.”

(The two young ladies join hands, and the others, headed by
Charley--Mrs. Morrison and the teacher protestingly joining, coaxed by
the children--pass under the arched hands, singing:

  “London Bridge is falling down,
  Falling down, falling down.
  London Bridge is falling down,
              My fair lady.”

May and Betty drop their hands around the person going under the arch
as the word “lady” is sung.)




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:

  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A DAY AT HAPPY HOLLOW
SCHOOL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
